Riyad mansur palestine's ambassador to
the United Nations was quick to welcome
the icj's additional provisional
measures announced Friday and said they
must be implemented we uh expect that
resolutions of the
icj uh to be implemented without
hesitation that's mandatory and Israel
is as I said party to the convention and
the convention is crystal clear on this
issue so Israel has to abide by the
decisions and the uh demands from the
icj one of the icj provisional measures
issued by the world's top court is that
Israel allow into Gaza United Nation
teams to investigate war crimes on
Friday when asked about that a un
spokesperson said without a ceasefire
that's unlikely there is what the court
has decided what the court has called
for which we've always uh called for
Access for investigatory bodies but
obviously unless the um the the facts on
the ground change uh it is not likely
that anyone will be able to travel there
soon you seen the icj decision this
morning no I didn't at the UN few
ambassadors wanted to comment on the icj
decision most saying they needed more
time to thoroughly read it but Algeria
the only Arab State on the security
Council made brief comment while
speaking at a meeting on the protection
of civilians and humanitarian workers in
armed conflict that the icg
orders are legally
binding and that the occupying Israeli
power should abide by the order issued
today it appears likely in the coming
days Algeria will spearhead the effort
on a new draft resolution on Rafa
demanding that Israel abide by the icj
decisions and that could put the United
States Israel's main Ally on another
collision course with the rest of the
council Gabriel zondo Al jazer at the
United Nations in New
York make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer